I wish the delegation of China well as it takes up the presidency of the Security Council for the month of March.
If the country is kept out of regional tensions, the fight against terrorism and extremism will also be successful.
If there is a new Government, if there is good governance, if the new Government allows civil society to flourish, if there is an inclusive electoral process, there is hope for the country and hope for an economic recovery.
Let me end on the theme, again, of hope.
I also echo the call for providing access to humanitarian non-governmental organizations and relief workers.
It is unacceptable that it is, as she said, built into everyday politics.
In addition, I echo what the Special Representative of the Secretary-General said about the fight against corruption.
These criminal gangs have to be dismantled and reintegrated.
Only when we have a new, strong Government will it be possible to rein in the criminal activities of armed groups, many of whom were responsible for the killings, kidnapping and violence against unarmed protesters and journalists.
As Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert has said, no prime minister can go it alone.
The country needs a united political class.
The responsible politicians have to overcome the political divisions and indecisiveness in their country.
Returning to the theme of hope, we also hope that there will soon be a new Government.
We cannot allow impunity.
I can only echo what she and the United States representative said before, the perpetrators have to be brought to justice.
Let me end, having seen the Ambassador of Kuwait in the Chamber, by expressing appreciation for what he said about the work of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq on the Kuwaiti missing.
As Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert described it, we witnessed abhorrent human rights violations.
We also support and appreciate the mostly peaceful demonstrations.
There are many women now active in the country, which we support.
We witnessed that there is a very vibrant civil society.
Speaking of hope, the demonstrations we witnessed were also a sign of hope.
Iraq must not be dragged into regional confrontations; rather, it should be allowed to focus on post-conflict recovery, reconstruction and growth and on utilizing the economic potential it has, as Ms. Hennis-Plasschaert has outlined.
We appeal to all stakeholders inside and outside the country to exercise maximum restraint.
After the very dangerous escalation we all witnessed in January, it is, for us, very important that we now see a de-escalation.
We hope, first of all, that the country will be kept out of regional tensions.
I would like to pick up on her theme of hope, which is a theme to which we can subscribe.
We heard Special Representative of the Secretary-General Hennis- Plasschaert's account, which was at the same time hopeful and sobering, and I very much appreciate her briefing.
We naturally recognize the difficult situation his country is facing.
We are glad to have him in the Chamber today.
With regard to today's topic, I welcome the Ambassador of Iraq.
I would also like to thank Mr. Marc Pecsteen de Buytswerve, PermanentRepresentative of Belgium, for the Belgian presidency of the Council in February, although we did not win a prize.
But it is really unfortunate that we also had to witness the excessive use of force.
It is very important that, even after so many years, this work continues to be conducted.
