I thank Special Representative of the Secretary-General Jeanine Hennis- Plasschaert for the informative briefing.
China believes that the international community has an important role to play in helping Iraq to rebuild its critical infrastructure, eradicate poverty, ensure better access to health care and quality education and improve the livelihoods of the ordinary people.
China therefore welcomes the commitment of the new Government of Iraq to boosting the economy, reducing unemployment and improving public services.
Measures to mitigate the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic should be in parallel with the efforts on sustainable development, which is key to sustaining peace and stability.
The experts spent 50 days in Iraq, visited nine provinces, conducted 27 training courses for more than 1,000 medical staff and helped to launch a testing laboratory.
Last month, a team of Chinese medical experts just finished its mission in Iraq in combating COVID-19.
We stand with Iraq in this public health crisis.
China values its strategic partnership and friendly cooperation with Iraq.
We call on international partners, including the relevant United Nations bodies and agencies, to provide more assistance to Iraq so as to enhance its preparedness and response to COVID-19.
The threat of the pandemic compounds the economic and security difficulties in Iraq.
Thirdly, we should support Iraq's efforts to address the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic and foster economic and social development.
China recognizes the important work done by the United Nations Investigative Team to Promote Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, in accordance with its mandate, and encourages it to closely engage with the Iraqi Government.
We should also support Iraq in bringing terrorists to justice in accordance with the relevant domestic laws and with full respect for its sovereignty and jurisdiction.
The international community must continue its support to Iraq in the fight against the remnant forces of terrorism and assist the country in addressing the problem of foreign terrorist fighters.
That is a worrisome and clear reminder that an immediate threat of terrorism still exists.
We have been doing our part actively and constructively during the past years, including through the Belt and Road Initiative.
In his recent report (S/2020/363), the Secretary-General notes the increased activities of terrorist groups in Iraq, which have claimed 370 incidents since January compared with 187 incidents during the same period last year.
We welcome the continued efforts of Iraq to strengthen relations with its neighbours, and commend the collaboration between Iraq and Kuwait in resolving the issue of missing Kuwaiti persons and property.
Any military action on Iraqi territory must be subject to the consent of the Iraqi Government.
As the Secretary-General and the Special Representative have emphasized, Iraq should not become an arena for external conflicts.
We call on the relevant parties on the ground to follow the Secretary-General's appeal of a global ceasefire, exercise restraint and pursue immediate de-escalation.
China is concerned about the negative impact of regional tensions on the peace and security of Iraq.
In giving a helping hand, the international community must listen first to the views of Iraq, refrain from imposing solutions and never interfere in Iraq's internal affairs.
At this critical time, we should endeavour to create an enabling environment for the Government and people of Iraq to move forward the Iraq-led and Iraq-owned reconstruction process.
First, we should fully respect Iraq's sovereignty, political independence and territorial integrity.
In that connection, I would like to emphasize the following three points.
The international community should fully respect and support the Iraqi people in pursuing the peace and development of their country.
The Iraqi people have demonstrated once again that they have the will, wisdom and capability to find solutions to the challenges that they face.
We welcome the formation of anew Government of Iraq, led by Prime Minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi.
I also welcome the Ambassador of Iraq, who is participating in this meeting.
We appreciate the work of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, in line with its mandate.
Secondly, we should support Iraq in consolidating its counter-terrorism achievements.
It is our sincere hope that, with the strong support of the international community, the Government and people of Iraq will succeed in building a peaceful and prosperous nation.
