I join others in condemning the recent attacks on peacekeepers in Mali.
We note, however, that the exhumation of a third mass grave site on 31 January will provide long-needed closure to Kuwaitis.
The United Kingdom notes the recent 112th meeting of the Technical Subcommittee and regrets the postponement of the subsequent meeting.
We note the decision of the United States to extend the waivers allowing Iraq to continue to import gas and electricity from Iran.
Also welcome is the continued engagement between the international community and the Government of Iraq.
The Government of Iraq and UNAMI should work together on the provision of technical assistance and support for future elections.
We also welcome UNAMI's readiness to support the Government of Iraq's efforts to make technical preparations for elections, including through the Mission's continued support of the Independent High Electoral Commission.
We welcome the early steps taken by the Government in that regard.
The formation of the new Government is an opportunity to address the legitimate demands expressed during the protests in recent months and to investigate and hold accountable those who used excessive force against the protesters.
We urge the Government of Iraq to take swift action against those who caused the deaths of coalition and Iraqi troops and to prevent future incidents.
In that regard, we condemn the actions of groups operating within Iraq, which resulted in the death of Lance Corporal Brodie Gillon and two United States service personnel on 11 March, and further attacks on 14 March that injured both United States and Iraqi service personnel.
That must be our priority.
Like the other members of the global coalition against Da'esh, the United Kingdom remains committed to supporting Iraq in its efforts to prevent a Da'esh resurgence.
We join others on the Council in expressing concern about the increasing frequency of attacks by Da'esh in recent months, culminating in the deaths of a number of members of Iraqi federal police and popular mobilization forces on 2 and 3 May.
That includes making progress on negotiations on the internally disputed territories.
We urge the international community to support the new Government in Iraq as it addresses the pressing health, economic, security and political issues confronting the country.
We urge both the Kurdistan Regional Government and the Government of Iraq to continue to tackle Iraq's security challenges.
In that connection, we look forward to the new Government's early engagement with international financial institutions.
To address those challenges, Iraq will need to undertake difficult reforms and will require the sustained support of the international community.
But as Special Representative Hennis-Plasschaert said, the impact of COVID-19 and the fall in global oil prices have only compounded the serious economic challenges facing Iraq.
The United Kingdom supports Iraq's efforts to combat the pandemic, including through the provision of over $12 million in assistance for that purpose.
We welcome the unity that political and religious leaders have demonstrated during this time.
We commend the actions taken by the Government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional Government to ensure the safety of its citizens as they tackle COVID-19.
As other members of the Council have said, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) poses a serious threat to Iraq, as it does to all countries.
We encourage the new Government to work closely with the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq (UNAMI) in the coming months.
We urge the Iraqi Parliament to swiftly appoint the remaining ministry posts in order to enable the Government of Iraq to deliver for all the Iraqi people.
As our Foreign Secretary conveyed to Prime Minister Al-Kadhimi on 12 May, the United Kingdom is committed to supporting this new Government in addressing the challenges facing Iraq.
We also join others in welcoming the parliamentary confirmation of Mustafa Al-Kadhimi as the new Prime Minister of Iraq and the appointment of the majority of his Cabinet.
I would like to begin by thanking Special Representative Hennis-Plasschaert for her thorough briefing.
All they do is encourage us to redouble our efforts in that country.
The people who carry out such attacks are the enemies of peace.
The United Kingdom has contributed over $19 million to the World Bank's Iraq Reform and Reconstruction Fund, and we hope that others will look to do the same.
The success of the new Government of Iraq is in the interests of all of us.
